In this guide, we define principles under which you can create a pull request that can be accepted by the OFIQ development team after review. 


DISCLAIMER: Note, that sticking to these principles does not necessarily mean that a pull request will be accepted; there may be reasons to ask you for a revision - or to entirely reject a pull request


# Principle \# 1: Usefulness
We much appreciate that you consider to contribute a useful feature to OFIQ. If you have an idea for a feature but are unsure if this is considered useful by the OFIQ development team, you may contact [bbtams](https://github.com/bbtams) or [m-schaubert](https://github.com/m-schaubert) first.

## Useful features
A useful feature is, for example,
* bug fixes
* code and runtime improvements
* support for other platforms or hardware

## Features considered not useful
Note that OFIQ is the reference implementation of the ISO/IEC 29794-5 standard which defines the quality measures (scope and implementation) implemented in OFIQ. Therefore, we consider the following contributions as not useful for OFIQ.
* new quality measures 
* modifications affecting output of quality measures
* modifications affecting the output of pre-processing steps
* modifications of the configuration

# Principle \# 2: Create pull request for develop branch ...
... NOT for the main branch! We want only source code in the main branch that has been tested and verified by the OFIQ development team. If features are accepted for being merged in the development branch, still some work needs to be done by the OFIQ development team. These are for example:
* testing compilation for different platforms
* successful passing of the conformance tests
* update of the reference manual in PDF format generated by a changed doxygen documentation
* compatiblity when merged with other features of other contributors
When a pull request is created for the main branch, the OFIQ development will reject it and ask you to create the pull request for the develop branch instead.

# Principle \# 3: Compilability 
The documentation describes how to compile OFIQ for different platforms. Successful compilation for all those documented platforms should still be possible when merging a new feature. The pull request may need to be revised by you if merging the new feature breaks compilability.

# Principle \# 4: Conformance tests
It is important to note that OFIQ is the reference implementation of the ISO/IEC 29794-5 standard. Therefore, the conformance tests (implemented in [testing/test_conformance_table.cpp](testing/test_conformance_table.cpp)) must be passed. As a consequence, it is not possible to change conformance test target values stored in [expected_results.csv](data/tests/expected_results/expected_results.csv); likewise, it is not possible to remove quality components tests from the conformance tests.

# Principle \# 5: Documentation
You should document the new feature. For bug fixes, code or runtime improvements, you may add a brief description to the top of the [changelog](CHANGELOG.md). If your feature is a support for another platform or hardware, describe, if necessary, how to compile for the new platform or hardware in the [building documentation](BUILD.md). 

# Principle \# 6: Reproducibility
Ideally, the OFIQ development team should be able to compile and test the new feature. However, if your feature is a support for a platform or hardware that is not easily accessible by the OFIQ team (and thus not easily testable), we may decide to mark the platform support as experimental - as long as compilability of the officially supported platforms does not change.
